# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns

## Overview of Project
The project throughs light on the various campaigns funded in the different areas using the Kickstarter dataset. It analysis the relationship of the campaign launch dates and their funding goals for the plays campaigns under the theater category. It is used to uncover the trends.The project was done to analysis the scope of variance between the goal and pledged amounts for each campaign.
The theater camapaign was the most successful one among the main categories.
---
## Analysis and Challenges
The analysis was performed using the raw Kickstarter dataset which had to be further filtered to get the final set of data range pertaining specifically to the theater campaign for the analysis. Data representation was done using line chart for better and easily data visualization. I found it a little confusing while selecting the field for the pivot table to provide better summary of the information at a glance. There was a dilemma in selecting the best type of graphic representation for the pivot tables but was able to select the chart which provided the most efficient visualization of data.
---
## Results
- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Theater Outcomes by Launch Date? - While analyzing the theater campaign data based on launch date, it was concluded that successful outcome was rated the highest for the month of May followed by June and July which throws light on the fact that theater campaigns would be more successful when launched between May to July while the failed campaign rates remained roughly constant. The analysis also concludes that the success rate declines for theater campaigns towards the end of the year from October onwards along with the data that no campaigns were cancelled in Oct. As a result of which there is a 50/50 probability that a theater campaign can succeed or fail in December.
- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals? - While analysing the data, it was determined that plays funding goals below $1,000 had the highest success rate of 76%, while the failed rate was the lowest which was only 24%. To conclude, as the funding goal increased to a higher level the success rate declined largely resulting in the campaign failing to a large extend.
- What are some limitations of this dataset? - One among the various limitations of the dataset was that the data for the theater project was limited to the projects funded by Kickstarter campaign and doesn’t represent the overall nature of outcome in the play category. The data was close set, so the determination of the plays being successful, failed or cancelled is imprecise on a wider scale. 
- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create? - Additional tables and graphs would have been valuable while analysing the various campaigns under the Theater category. It could have been better if we could have analyzed the other subcategories under Theater, as it would have enabled us to identify the categories that could have been more successful on a larger scale than plays. The wider scope could have equipped Kickstarter to re-consider the launch dates for the different theater subcategory campaigns based on the probability of success outcome against failed. Including more graphs would enable the potential audience to understand the scope of the campaigns more easily. 
In addition, tables with information from other campaigns outside of Kickstarter would have been more accurate while analysing the outcomes. The Box chart could have also been used to identify outliers in our study.
